Israel's war on Hamas is having
repercussions outside of the region
demonstrators in many countries have
held both pro-israel and pro Palestinian
rallies here in Germany public opinion
is also shaped by the country's historic
responsibility for the Holocaust a
senior political leader recently posted
a speech condemning anti-Semitism but
surveys show that people's views on the
conflict are in fact
complex the war between Israel and Hamas
has touched many lives not just in the
Middle East but for instance in Germany
too many feel it's a conflict with no
end the latest infr test dmap poll
reveals almost three qus of Germans say
they are concerned about the flare up in
hostilities since the terror attacks by
Hamas on the 7th of October many of them
say they feel fear about what might
happen
next of course I'm scared I'm afraid of
anything that spreads hate yes with this
conflict that we have now the Middle
East Israel I hope they stop on both
sides you get really scared well I think
I've never been as afraid of the future
as I am now now also with Ukraine and
with
Israel Germany has seen demonstrations
on both sides large crowds determined to
show solidarity with Israel and
awareness of Germany's historic
responsibility towards Jews but also
protests in support of the Palestinians
sometimes peacefully drawing attention
to the plight of civilians in Gaza
sometimes angrier Gatherings with
anti-semitic chants and
slogans according to police there's been
a surge in the number of anti-Semitic
incidents in recent weeks including
Molotov cocktails thrown at a Jewish
center and the Star of David dbed on
Jewish homes
but the infest dmap survey shows only
just over half of people in Germany
acknowledge this rise in anti-semitic
hatred more than a third said they did
not recognize the
problem I'm afraid there will be attacks
I'm afraid the mood will turn to the
right I'm afraid that something will
happen to
Jews no I'm not afraid I think here in
Germany it will be kept under
control I think the problem has always
has existed and it's breaking out now
there's an opportunity for people to
show it and they obviously feel
empowered by global Trends and social
media and everything they see on the
internet
social inter Chancellor Schultz is among
a string of politicians who've spoken
out against
anti-Semitism on Tuesday interior
Minister Nancy faser moved to ban groups
linked to Hamas in Germany such actions
may help to keep the peace on the
streets of Berlin and other cities but
the atmosphere of fear and division will
not be easy to
dispel I want to bring in DW political
correspondent Hans Brun now Hans the
German government has made a point of
stressing Germany's historic
responsibility to stand up for Israel
but opinions among the German public
aren't quite as clear-cut are
they yes indeed it was in a spectacular
video or a video that has been viewed
millions of times since it was published
just recently the German um minister of
economic economic Affairs a member of
the green party once again stressed that
support that Germany uh has for for
Israel but if you look at this poll it's
actually fairly balanced there is uh the
poll reflects some criticism of Israel
quite a lot of criticism as far as
attacks are concerned that uh um cause
uh civilian injuries in Gaza um and at
the same time there is severe criticism
of Hamas of the fact that uh well 3/4s
of Germans make Hamas responsible hold
Hamas responsible uh for the um the
chaos the the war the injuries the
deaths that are taking place at the
moment so there is criticism both of
Israel and of the Palestinian side um
and I think the kind of uh unwavering
support for Israel is not quite as wides
that the government that the government
stresses is not quite as widespread in
the German
population it's interesting Hans uh the
the poll also shows that while
two-thirds say they're worried about
Israeli civilians an even greater number
72% say they're worried about the
Palestinians yes indeed this is part of
that phenomenon we are talking about
that there is a tendency uh that the
Palestinian side has more sympathy
amongst the uh German population we must
emphasize here that the poll was taken
amongst German voters German citizens
and there are about 10 to 12 million
foreigners living in Germany who are
also obviously affected by this
situation and also um participate in
demonstrations and so on and I think uh
one can say that amongst those
non-germans living here many of whom are
from the Middle East the simp Sympathy
for the Arab side for the Palestinian
side is probably larger as well so I
think in general one can say that uh uh
Israel's stand in the German public in
the public of people living in Germany
um is a difficult one Hans as we heard
in the report preceding you the uh
recent weeks have seen a spike in
anti-semitic uh incidents across the
country but German intelligence agencies
had been warning of this worrying Trend
uh even before the war what might be
behind this
surge well there is certainly a surge
that is connected to Pro Palestinians de
demonstrations that have been taking
place or many that have been prohibited
especially here in Berlin the German
Capital because the authorities feel
that these would lead or could lead to
anti-semitic uh um calls to calls for
violence to calls to destroy Israel
these kinds of things and so they have
been prohibited and as we saw in that
report there were several incidents
involving Jewish institutions both here
in Berlin and elsewhere in Germany uh
and these are clearly connected to the
rising tensions uh caused by uh the
conflict in the Middle East by the war
between Israel and Hamas um but it has
also to be said that there is um a
constancy amongst anti-semitic about
constancy of anti-Semitic feeling ings
in Germany coming mainly from the far
right in this country um that is
something that authorities have always
warned about that in the past uh most of
these anti-semitic incidents have been
committed by extremists on the right of
the political spectrum and that's
something that has probably gone sort of
merged into the background at the moment
against the background of this current
conflict but it's something that's
always been there in German society and
well have to end it there our thanks to
political correspondent Hans
Brun